# 1 - Ways of loading a Script in a webpage

# How to Insert JavaScript Code into an HTML File using `<script>` Tag

## How Does It Work?

- When the browser finds a `<script>` tag, it stops rendering HTML and starts downloading and executing the code.
- Scripts are executed in the order they appear in the HTML code.

## Where to Place the `<script>` Tag?

- **In the `<head>`**: The script is downloaded and executed, and after that, the HTML is rendered.
- **At the end of the `<body>`**: HTML is rendered first, and after that, the script is downloaded and executed.

## Three Ways of Inserting JavaScript Code:

1. **Embedding script code**
2. **Loading external resources from a CDN (Content Delivery Network)**
3. **Loading your own external JS file.** There are two ways of importing and exporting code:
   - **Option 1**: Load every JS file in the same HTML file. Only recommended when the code is not related.
   - **Option 2**: Organize the content into modules and import the main module. Only possible when the code is related.

## Modifying Traditional Blocking Behavior with `async` and `defer`:

- **`async`**:
  ```html
  <script src="file1.js" async></script>
  ```
  - The rendering of the page is not blocked while the scripts are being loaded.
  - Scripts are executed as soon as they are loaded, so the order of execution is not guaranteed.

- **defer**:
  ```html
  <script src="file1.js" defer></script>
  ```
  - The rendering of the page is not blocked while the scripts are being loaded.
  - Scripts are executed in the order they are placed in the HTML code, but only after the entire page (DOM) has been parsed.

## Options:

### Option 1: Not Recommended. Embedded Script into HTML Code. It's Better in a Separate File:
```html
<script>
  setTimeout(() => {
    console.log("hola");
  }, 3000);
</script>
```

### Option 2: Loading External Resources from a CDN (Content Delivery Network). Be Careful! Load Content Only from Trusted Sources:
```html
<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/lodash.js/4.17.21/lodash.min.js" integrity="sha512-wvHm8W2YdFx27tNwpYwOHKeglkIjG3CXMR1JLcEUQU9zI/hzP6UtWk4fNN0kfi32dT8Xq2a7rfFSJi5VpY2VwA==" crossorigin="anonymous" referrerpolicy="no-referrer" async></script>
<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/moment.js/2.29.4/moment.min.js" async></script>
```

### Option 3: Loading an own external JS file. 3 options:
    ```html
    <script src="../js/1.-script.js"></script>```  -> HTML rendering is blocked until the script is donwloaded and executed
    <script src="../js/1.-script.js" defer></script>``` -> script is loaded at background while HTML is being rendered and is executed only when HTML is rendered. Order is maintained
    <script src="../js/1.-script.js" async></script>```  -> script is loaded at background while HTML is being rendered but it is executed as soon as it is available, blocking HTML rendering. Order is not maintained
    
